.\" -*- nroff-*-
.TH WMMOUNT 1x "October 1999" "Debian Project" "wmmount"
.SH NAME
wmmount \- the WindowMaker universal mount point
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wmmount
[ -- [-h|-help|--help] [-s] [-w] [-a] [-display <display>]
[-position <position>] [-b <color>] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wmmount
mounts and umounts filesystems using a simple interface on a 64x64
miniwindow and a configuration file. It can also launch commands
on the mount points, for example Midnight Commander, \fBmc\fP(1).
.PP
.B wmmount 
is configured using a configuration file, ~/.wmmount (or
/etc/system.wmmountrc). Its format is documented on the
"\fIConfiguration\fP" section below.
.PP
To mount a file system, click the left most button on the bottom
strip. To move between mounts, click the right arrow button (goes
"forward") and left arrow button (goes "back"). To launch the
configured command, click the icon you defined.
.SS OPTIONS
You need to put "--" in front of every argument that relates to dockapp
settings.
.TP
.B \-h, \-help, \-\-help
displays a brief help message
.TP
.B \-s
start up without groundplate
.TP
.B \-w
start up withdrawn (for Window Maker)
.TP
.B \-a
use an smaller window (for AfterStep's Wharf)
.TP
.B \-display <display>
selects target display
.TP
.B \-position <position>
specifies the start up position in +x+y format
.TP
.B \-b <color>
specifies the back color
.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file has a semi rigid format, and is case
sensitive. A # starts a comment, and lines consisting entirely of
whitespace are ignored. There are some key-value pairs that control
the behaviour and appearance of \fBwmmount\fP, namely:
.TP
.B mountcmd=<command>
specifies the command used to mount a file system. If omitted,
\fImount %m &\fP will be used.
.TP
.B umountcmd=<command>
specifies the command used to unmount a file system. If omitted,
\fIumount %m &\fP will be used.
.TP
.B opencmd=<command>
specifies the command to run when the mount icon is clicked. If
omitted, \fIx-terminal-emulator -e mc %m\fP will be used.
.TP
.B namecolor=<color>
specifies the color used for the mount name text. If omitted, black is
used.
.TP
.B namefont=<font>
specifies the font used for the mount name text. This is an X Font
specification. See xlsfonts(1x). If omitted, helvetica, bold, 11 pt is
used.
.TP
.B usagecolor=<color>
specifies the color used for the capacity readout. If omitted, gray90
is used.
.TP
.B usagefont=<font>
specifies the font used for the capacity readout. This is an X Font
specification. See xlsfonts(1x). If omitted, helvetica, medium,
oblique, 11 pt is used.
.TP
.B ledcolor=<color>
specifies the color used for the led. If omitted, green is used.
.PP
As you may have guessed by now, the special string \fI%m\fP in command
specification is substituted with the corresponding \fBmount point\fP.
Likewise, \fI%n\fP will be replaced with the \fBname of the mountpoint\fP.
The string \fI%%\fP will be replaced with '%'.
.PP
Icons are specified like this:
.TP
.B icon <icon file>
.PP
At least \fBone\fP icon has to be specified, there's a maximum of 20
icons. The details of the mountpoint(s) are specified like this
(ordering and indentation \fIis\fP important, there are \fIno\fP blank
lines between keys):
.PP
\fBmountpoint \fP<\fImountpoint\fP>
.br
\fBname=\fP<\fIname\fP>
.br
\fBiconnumber=\fP<\fInumber\fP>
.br
\fBusagedisplay=\fP<\fI0\fP|\fI1\fP|\fI2\fP|\fI3\fP>
.TP
.I mountpoint
is the actual mountpoint. This value is substituted wherever %m
appears on the commands described above.
.TP
.I name
is the name displayed on for that particular mount.
.TP
.I number
is the icon number used. The first icon is number 0, and the same icon
can be used multiple times.
.TP
.I usagedisplay
this key specifies that kind of capacity information will be
displayed. Value of usagedisplay can be 0 (none), 1 (available), 2 (used)
or 3 (percentage used). The quantities, with values 1 or 2, are in bytes
(kB, MB or GB).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.wmmount
user configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/system.wmmount
system-wide configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/fstab
static information about the filesystems.
.TP
.I /usr/share/wmmount
directory which contains several icons that can be used with wmmount.
.PP
A maximum of 20 mountnames can be specified.
.SH BUGS
Does not read symlinks properly when testing for mounted filesystems.
So, if it incorrectly reports devices as mounted, make sure the mountpoint
specified in the config file does not include symlinks.
.sp
Version 1.0-beta1 of wmmount had different configuration file syntax
and different way of argument handling. You may experience segfaults
if trying to use old style configuration files with newer versions
(>= 1.0-beta2). You can use the gen-wmmountrc script to generate a
new wmmount config file from your /etc/fstab file contents.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR df (1),
.BR mount (1),
.BR fstab (5),
.BR nfs (5),
.BR gen-wmmountrc (1), 
.BR wmaker (1x).
.SH AUTHORS
.B wmmount
was written by Sam Hawker <shawkie@geocities.com>.
.sp
This manual page was written by Marcelo Magallon <mmagallo@debian.org>,
and is GNU Copyright 1998 Marcelo Magallon. Later updated by Josip Rodin.
